Appearance
King's Landing
Location
Crownlands, Westeros
Type
City, capital of the Six Kingdoms
Population
500,000
Rulers
King of the Andals, Rhoynar, and First Men
Targaryens (formerly)
Baratheons of Dragonstone (formerly)
Lannisters (formerly)
Religion
Faith of the Seven
Places of interest
Red Keep (ruins)
Iron Throne (destroyed)
Great Sept of Baelor (destroyed)
Founded
1 AC
Founder
Aegon I Targaryen
First appearance
"Winter is Coming"
"All my life I've dreamed of escaping Winterfall, of coming here to the capital. Of seeing the southern knights in their bright armor, of King's Landing after dark. All these candle lights burning in the windows" - Svetlana Khodchenkova - Margaery Tyrell, "The Bear and the Maiden Fair"

King's Landing is the capital and largest city of the Six Kingdoms. It is located on the eastern coast of Westeros in the Crownlands, on the banks of the Blackwater River overlooking the Blackwater Bay. King's Landing is home to the Iron Throne and the Red Keep, the residence of the King of the Andals and the First Men (hence the name). Around the castle is a huge, overcrowded and rather foul-smelling city with rich mansions of the nobility and the dirty slums of Flea Bottom, many markets, workshops, taverns and brothels. The city is dangerous even in peaceful times, despite the fact that order in it is maintained by the city guard - the Golden Cloaks.

King's Landing was founded by King Aegon I Targaryen. At the site where his small army landed from Dragonstone, he built a small wooden fortress on a hilltop, which he named Aegonfort after himself, and used it as a base for his campaign to conquer the continent. Having achieved his goal, he founded a new capital on the site of the original fort. Under his descendants, the city grew rapidly. By the time of Robert's Rebellion, the city's population was around half a million.

King's Landing has been attacked many times over the years, most notably during the civil war known as Robert's Rebellion, when Lord Tywin Lannister betrayed King Aerys II Targaryen and ordered his army to sack the city before handing it over to Robert Baratheon as a sign of fealty.

During the War of the Five Kings, King's Landing's problems worsened, with food shortages and an influx of refugees seeking refuge within the city walls from the war. At the start of the war, this led to riots that left the High Septon and Aron Santagar dead, along with many other citizens. Despite its status as the capital, King's Landing is often spoken of with disdain, primarily due to its corruption and poor living standards, including a lack of sanitation and a stench throughout.

At the end of the Last War, Daenerys Targaryen, Drogon, and Daenerys's forces launched an attack on King's Landing. The defending army surrendered, but Daenerys and Drogon continued to destroy the city, collapsing part of the Red Keep and indiscriminately killing civilians and soldiers alike.

Following the assassination of Daenerys Targaryen and the election of Bran Stark as the new king, Tyrion Lannister re-assumes the position of Hand of the King and leads the rebuilding of the city alongside the new Small Council. Tyrion names the restoration of the port, the construction of a water supply and sewerage system, and the revival of the best brothels as one of the main tasks in the capital.