The Wall is a colossal defensive structure that protects the Seven Kingdoms from those who live in the lands to the north.

Description
The exact construction process is unknown, as writing was not developed at the time and history was not recorded. According to legend, the construction, which was led by Brandon the Builder, involved the first men and giants. In addition, the magic of the children of the forest was used in the construction of the Wall.

The Wall
The northern side of the Wall and the gate.
Stretching from east to west, the Wall is about two hundred meters high (seven hundred feet), four hundred eighty kilometers long (three hundred miles), and is made primarily of ice. The exact width of the Wall is unknown, but it is said to be wider than the Kingsroad and can accommodate ten horsemen, and is even wider at the base.

An order was created to serve on the Wall, called the Night's Watch. Nineteen castles of the Night's Watch were built along the southern part of the Wall. Special passages lead from the castles to the northern part of the Wall.

The top of the Wall can be reached by stairs or using special lifts. It is reported that the top of the Wall is constantly blown by the wind, so guardrooms and walking paths are built for the sentries.

In addition, throwing machines are installed on the Wall.

Watch and signal horn.
The Wall is an excellent defense - it is too strong and thick to be destroyed. It is difficult to bypass the Wall - it stretches almost from sea to sea.

Some brave souls may dare to climb over the Wall, but the climb is dangerous, and many of them fall to their deaths.

However, the Wall is not invulnerable to external influences:

In warm weather, when the sun shines brightly, the Wall begins to melt, and it may seem that it is "crying" ("It was warm, too warm. The Wall was covered in tears, it had been crying for many days"). In addition, it is known that under the influence of wildlings trying to climb the Wall, individual pieces of ice could break off from the ice mass of the Wall.
The builders of the Night's Watch must maintain in good condition not only the castles located on the Wall, but also the Wall itself.
In the last year of Robert Baratheon's reign, the Night's Watch was in decline and only three inhabited castles remained near the Wall. Despite this, the scouts of the Night's Watch continue to fulfill their duty and regularly go beyond the Wall.